---
fontsize: 12pt
---

# Problem Solution Essay Draft 2

*(Draft 2)*

by Jeremy Heng (A0146789H)

C2 Group 4

# Essay

Globalisation is the increasing interconnected between nations for the purposes
of global economic and cultural trade. It is commonly acknowledged as a major
driver of the modern economy where reshifting of the global labour pools as well
as increased access to larger markets have massively increased profits for
companies. This change, however, comes at a price: a widening income gap. In
developed countries, the outsourcing of labour to cheaper locations overseas
has caused unemployment within the working class. This essay will discuss the
efficacy of protectionist and social solutions suggested by economists and
politicians to combat this problem.

Globalisation has created wealth for developed countries, particularly America,
through the outsourcing of production lines and manufacturing. However, it has
also taken jobs away from the proletariat in these countries creating a wage gap
between the working class and the wealthy. Outsourcing is a problem for these
workers in developed countries because foreign labour in developing countries
is inherently cheaper. The adoption of outsourcing is a logical step for
companies who wish to maximise their profits. According to The Economist
(2007), workers in the furniture manufacturing industry were retrenched when
retailers in America found cheaper suppliers in China. The employment vacuum
created by the export of labour to foreign developing countries has decreased
employment opportunities for lower skilled workers in developed countries while
enriching corporate owners, increasing the gap between the poor and the rich.

Governments may implement protectionist policies to protect the interests of the
local economy against the profit-driven motivations of the globalised free
market. However, in the American context, competition and innovation drives the
economy. If policies were implemented to 'place Americans first', the economy
might stagnate due to the decreased competition which might in turn cause
fewer jobs to be created. According to an analysis of Donald Trump's proposal
for American protectionism by Moore and Kudlow (2015), 'immigrants fill niches
in the labor market that natives can't or won't fill'. Thus, some outsourced or
immigrant labour actually adds to the overall productivity and can further
contribute to the creation of new jobs with fresh businesses developments.
Admittedly, the solution does not address the people who live below the poverty
line as the wage gap still exists between the wealthy and the poor. Thus, a
middle ground should be sought such that competitive trade may still continue to
exist but in such a way that the needs of the vulnerable are prioritised above
the desires of a corporation. Protectionism taken to its extreme can harm the
economy but a measure of it is necessary to protect citizens who are unable to
participate in the process of globalisation.

Globalisation is experiencing instability with protectionist legislature passed
by governments reacting to their angry voting populations. Companies should work
towards defending globalisation from hostile legislation by implementing
socially responsible policies that ensure society as a whole benefits. Corporate
social responsibility is a voluntary initiative undertaken by companies to
reduce the negative impacts of their operations on society. This is relevant to
reducing the increasing unemployment rates outsourcing is causing in developed
countries. Grassroots initiatives may help key managerial staff understand the
issues faced by the working class and guide the creation of progressive
policies. For example, re-training programs can improve the hireability of
employees who are retrenched. Sutter (2013) cites Michael Norton, a Harvard
professor as evidence that the breaking down of social barriers between the rich
and poor can spark the development of mutually beneficial policies. An issue
with this approach is that most companies adopt corporate social responsibility
only for the marketing benefits. Regulation on the part of governments for
corporations to adopt such policies might also be opposed to the goals of a
profit-making organisation. Nevertheless, corporations that participate in
globalisation must be aware of their corporate social responsibilities and seek
to implement policies that help cushion the adverse impacts of their actions.
This acts as a means of closing the income gap by preventing the working class
from descending into poverty as well as protect globalisation from protectionist
policies implemented by governments in reaction to angry voters.

Globalisation has introduced the concept of outsourcing: the export of labour
requirements to developing foreign countries. This creates an unemployment
vacuum in developed countries for the working class who find themselves laid off
by companies who wish to maximise their profits. Ultimately, this widens the gap
between the wealthy and the poor. Governments may implement protectionist
policies that ensures the needs of the local population before utilising foreign
labour. Conversely, corporations and companies may make the compassionate
decision to implement progressive policies as part of their corporate social
responsibilities. This effect is twofold: the working class is able to stay
above poverty and reactionary governments are dissuaded from implementing
stricter regulation on the free market. Globalisation is a modern marvel that
has improved the lives of the middle class in developed countries and has
brought a higher standard of living to those in the developing countries.
However, it has also been a great divisor: it has the capacity to make a lot of
money and it is this money that ends up in the pockets of the top 1%. The
introduction of policies both regulatory and voluntary can only go so far. For
an egalitarian society to bloom, wealth should not only be produced but be
distributed fairly and justly to everyone.

891 Words

\pagebreak

**References**


\hangindent=0.7cm Ekmekçioğlu, E. (n.d.). The Effects of Globalization on World
Income Inequality. Retrieved February 10, 2016, from https://www.academia.edu/1600985

\hangindent=0.7cm Jenkins, R. (2005), Globalization, Corporate Social
Responsibility and poverty. International Affairs, 81: 525–540. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2346.2005.00467.x

\hangindent=0.7cm Moore, S., & Kudlow, L. (2015, August 26). Kudlow: Trump's
protectionist ways will hurt US. Retrieved February 10, 2016, from
http://www.cnbc.com/2015/08/26/why-trumps-protectionist-ways-will-hurt-the-economy-commentary.html

\hangindent=0.7cm Roberts, P. C. (2010, October 28). Globalization Creates
Unemployment: American Job Loss Is Permanent. Retrieved February 10, 2016, from
http://www.globalresearch.ca/globalization-creates-unemployment

\hangindent=0.7cm Sutter, J. D. (2013, October 30). 7 ways to narrow the
rich-poor gap. Retrieved February 04, 2016, from http://edition.cnn.com/2013/10/29/opinion

\hangindent=0.7cm The Economist. (2007, January 18). Rich man, poor man.
Retrieved February 10, 2016, from http://www.economist.com/node/8554819

\hangindent=0.7cm Williford, S. (2011, February 26). Outsourcing Is the Problem,
Protectionism Is the Solution | Economy In Crisis. Retrieved February 10, 2016,
from http://economyincrisis.org/content/outsourcing-problem-protectionism-solution


