About Me

A person is the sum total of their experiences and is defined in a complex
amalgamation of interests, preferences, and activities. It is not easy to
describe a person's identity but if I had to describe mine in a word, that word
would be 'Hacker'.

I am a Hacker.

Glitchy images. Bad guys in masks. A hooded figure in a dark room, hunched over
a glowing laptop. These images are probably the ones that dart through your mind
at that mention of that word. Do not be alarmed; I am one of the good guys.
Well, most of the time at least.

Hacking is an adversarial arcane art and that is what draws me in. It combines
technical expertise, creativity, and a measure of danger in a yield that is
exciting, and yet, critical to the state of our modern technologically connected
world. It is a philosophy of being: a supercharged state of paranoia,
the ability to see the cracks in the fabric of our reality; eyes wide open to
the depravity of what humans are capable of.

While information security is a passion of mine, it is also my field of work. I
am in the Degree of Information Security course in the School of Computing and I
am heavily involved in the NUS Greyhats team. We compete in local and
international security competitions, organise technical talks, and conduct
independent research.

On the topic of my interests, I, believe it or not, love reading. Lately,
non-fiction titles with topics on computer science, philosophy, and political
systems have been dominating over fiction ones but I am partial to a dystopian
novel or two. Other interests include watching films of all genres (I love Woody
Allen), listening to vinyl records, and the mandatory playing of the video
games.

Oh, and I am also learning french, though I am horrible at it.
