My English Language Journey

I grew up on books. My childhood was spent staying up late in the night with my
head firmly in the pages where fantasies of adventures involving dragons, magic,
mysteries about murders, and polite company played out with boundless theatrics
in the vivid canvas of my mind. I wanted to grow up to be many things and being
a writer was one of them.

I was a literature geek in my Secondary School days. I loved the poems, the
stories, and all the pretty little things that made you feel. I was a dedicated
Multi User Dungeon (MUD) player. A MUD is a text-based fantasy game where strict
roleplaying is enforced, and the complexities of politics, ideology and ritual
are acted out in beautiful detail. The community was highly skilled at writing
and I loved immersing myself into the environment they painted. My writing
improved greatly during this period and I even began to write an in-character
book on the complexities of the religious conflict within the game.

In recent times, I have moved to technical writing. I maintain an information
security blog (http://nandynarwhals.org/) where I post detailed write-ups on the
problems I solve during capture-the-flag security competitions as well as a few
tutorials. I also conduct online workshops and have completely open-sourced the
material I write (https://github.com/nnamon/nightsoferised). The style of these
posts are done in a 'stream of consciousness'-esque way and they could stand to
be a little more eloquent.

As an aspiring information security researcher, English takes on a new role and,
thus a new level of importance. Language is a means of communication and, in
academic writing, a crucial factor in conveying and framing information in the
way you intend your audience to understand it. Conversely, having a good grasp
of the language also means that you, as a reader, would be able to better
perceive the meaning and subtext of a written work.
