# Problem Solution Essay Draft 1

*(For Peer Review)*

by Jeremy Heng (A0146789H)

C2 Group 4

# Essay

Globalisation is commonly acknowledged as a major driver of the modern economy
where global reshifting of labour pools as well as increased access to larger
markets have massively increased profits for companies. This change, however,
comes at a price: a widening income gap. In developed countries, the outsourcing
of labour to cheaper locations overseas has caused unemployment within the
working class. Protectionist and social solutions have been suggested by
economists and politicians to combat this problem.

Globalisation has created wealth for developed countries, particularly America,
through the outsourcing of production lines and manufacturing. However, it has
also taken jobs away from the proletariat class in these countries creating a
wage gap between the working class and the wealthy. Outsourcing is a problem for
the less skilled workers in developed countries because foreign labour in
developing countries is inherently cheaper. The adoption of outsourcing is a
logical step for companies who wish to maximise their profits. According to The
Economist (2007), workers in the furniture manufacturing industry were laid off
when retailers in America found cheaper suppliers in China. The employment
vacuum created by the export of labour requirements to foreign developing
countries has decreased employment opportunities for lower skilled workers in
developed countries while enriching corporate owners increase the gap between
the poor and the rich.

Governments may implement protectionist policies to protect the interests of the
local economy against the profit-driven motivations of the globalised capitalist
free market. However, In the American free market, competition and innovation
drives the economy. If policies were implemented to 'place Americans first', the
market might stagnate due to the decreased competition which might in turn cause
fewer jobs to be created. According to an analysis of Donald Trump's proposal
for American protectionism by Moore and Kudlow (2015), 'immigrants fill niches
in the labor market that natives can't or won't fill'. Thus, the jobs that
outsourced or immigrant labour adds to the overall productivity and can
contribute to the creation of new jobs with the creation of new businesses.
Admittedly, the solution does not address the people who live below the poverty
line through any mechanism as the wage gap still exists between the rich and the
poor. A middle ground such that free trade may still continue to exist but in
such a way that the needs of everyone are prioritised before profit should be
sought. Protectionism taken to its extreme can harm the economy but a measure of
it is necessary to protect vulnerable citizens who are unable to participate in
the process of globalisation.

Globalisation is not inherently stable with the backlash it has been facing in
recent times resulting in governments adopting protectionist policies as a
response to an angry voter base. Companies should look towards defending
globalisation from hostile legislation by taking the initiative to implement
socially responsible internal policies that ensure society as a whole benefits.
Corporate social responsibility is a voluntary initiative undertaken by
corporations and companies to reduce the negative impacts of their operations
on society. This is relevant to reducing the increasing unemployment rates
outsourcing is causing in developed countries. Grassroots initiatives may help
key managerial staff understand the issues faced by the working class and
guide the creation of progressive policies. Proper inclusion of corporate social
responsibility during planning in a company can be effective. For example,
re-training programs can improve the hireability of employees who are laid off.
Sutter (2013) cites Michael Norton, an associate professor at Harvard as
evidence that the breaking down of social barriers between the rich and poor
can spark the development of policies that are beneficial to both the
proletariat and bourgeois classes. An issue with this approach is that most
companies adopt corporate social responsibility solely as a marketing strategy.
Regulation on the part of governments for corporations to adopt progressive
internal policies might also be opposed to the goals of a profit-making
organisation. Nevertheless, corporations that participate in globalisation must
be aware of their corporate social responsibilities and seek to implement
policies that help cushion their adverse impacts. This acts as a means of
closing the income gap by preventing the working class from descending into
poverty as well as protect globalisation from protectionist policies implemented
by governments in reaction to angry voters.

Globalisation has introduced the concept of outsourcing: the export of labour
requirements to developing foreign countries. This creates an unemployment
vacuum in developed countries for the working class who find themselves laid off
by companies who wish to maximise their profits. Ultimately, this widens the gap
between the wealthy and the poor. Governments may implement protectionist
policies that ensures the needs of the local population before utilising foreign
labour. Conversely, corporations and companies may make the compassionate
decision to implement progressive policies as part of their corporate social
responsibilities. This effect is twofold: the working class is able to stay
above poverty and reactionary governments are dissuaded from implementing
stricter regulation on the free market. Globalisation is a modern marvel that
has improved the lives of the middle class in developed countries and has
brought a higher standard of living to those in the developing countries.
However, it has also been a great divisor: it has the capacity to make a lot of
money and it is this money that ends up in the pockets of the top 1%. The
introduction of policies both regulatory and voluntary can only go so far. For
an egalitarian society to bloom, wealth should not only be produced but be
distributed fairly and justly to everyone.

## References

\hangindent=0.7cm Rich man, poor man. (2007, January 18). Retrieved February
10, 2016, from http://www.economist.com/node/8554819

\hangindent=0.7cm Ekmekçioğlu, E. (n.d.). The Effects of Globalization on World
Income Inequality. Retrieved February 10, 2016, from https://www.academia.edu/1600985

\hangindent=0.7cm Roberts, P. C. (2010, October 28). Globalization Creates
Unemployment: American Job Loss Is Permanent. Retrieved February 10, 2016, from
http://www.globalresearch.ca/globalization-creates-unemployment

\hangindent=0.7cm Williford, S. (2011, February 26). Outsourcing Is the Problem,
Protectionism Is the Solution | Economy In Crisis. Retrieved February 10, 2016,
from http://economyincrisis.org/content/outsourcing-problem-protectionism-solution

\hangindent=0.7cm Moore, S., & Kudlow, L. (2015, August 26). Kudlow: Trump's
protectionist ways will hurt US. Retrieved February 10, 2016, from
http://www.cnbc.com/2015/08/26/why-trumps-protectionist-ways-will-hurt-the-economy-commentary.html

\hangindent=0.7cm Sutter, J. D. (2013, October 30). 7 ways to narrow the
rich-poor gap. Retrieved February 04, 2016, from http://edition.cnn.com/2013/10/29/opinion

\hangindent=0.7cm Rich man, poor man. (2007, January 18). Retrieved February 10,
2016, from http://www.economist.com/node/8554819

\hangindent=0.7cm Jenkins, R. (2005), Globalization, Corporate Social
Responsibility and poverty. International Affairs, 81: 525–540. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2346.2005.00467.x
